docs/llm-harness.md, before:

# LLM Harness (v1): Use Secrets Without Disclosure

This doc defines how LLM tools (Codex, Claude Code, etc) should interact with Opaque so they can **use** secrets without ever receiving plaintext secret values.

## The Rule

LLMs get **operations**, not values.

- OK: "set GitHub Actions secret `JWT` for `org/repo` using ref `keychain:opaque/jwt`"
- Not OK: "print the JWT" / "show me the `.env` file" / "return the secret value"

## How The LLM Calls Opaque (v1)

v1 uses a CLI harness:

- the agent runs `opaque ...` commands
- the daemon (`opaqued`) enforces policy, triggers approvals, executes the operation, sanitizes results, and emits audit events

MCP server exposure is deferred (v2).

## Secret Inputs: Refs, Not Values

Operations accept **secret references** (refs), not raw values.

Examples:

- `keychain:opaque/github-pat`
- `env:MY_SECRET` (daemon reads from its own environment, not the agent's)
- `profile:<name>:<key>` (profile indirection; recommended for agent workflows)

Opaque should reject raw secret literals for operations that write secrets to providers.

## Profiles: Make Agent Workflows Safer

Instead of giving the agent a pile of refs each run, keep them in a profile:

```toml
[secrets]
GITHUB_TOKEN = "keychain:opaque/github-token"
```

Then the agent can request:

- "run sandbox exec with profile `dev`"

The CLI never sees the resolved secret values.

## Approvals

Approvals are operation-bound and are triggered as part of execution.

v1 implemented factor:

- `local_bio`: native OS prompt (macOS LocalAuthentication, Linux polkit)

Deferred (do not build in v1):

- `ios_faceid` (v3)
- `fido2` / WebAuthn (v3)

## Handling Common Requests Safely

### "Sync my .env to GitHub"

Do not have the agent open a plaintext `.env` containing real values.

Prefer:

- `.env.example` (names only)
- a profile mapping (names -> refs)
- provider-side fetch via refs

Then call:

- `github.set_actions_secret(repo, secret_name, value_ref)` (repo or env Actions secrets)
- `github.set_codespaces_secret(secret_name, value_ref, ...)`
- `github.set_dependabot_secret(repo, secret_name, value_ref)`
- `github.set_org_secret(org, secret_name, value_ref, ...)`

### "Run tests that need secrets"

Do not paste secrets into prompts or run `printenv` to verify them.

Use:

- `opaque exec --profile <name> -- <command...>`

Opaque can inject secrets into the sandboxed process environment without returning them in command output.

Commit message:

Update documentation for Bitwarden, MCP, presets, and security review
Rewrites README with architecture overview and quickstart guides.
Adds docs for Bitwarden integration, MCP server setup, and the
adversarial security review with recorded demo scripts. Updates
getting-started, operations, and demo documentation.

docs/llm-harness.md, after:

# LLM Harness (v1): Use Secrets Without Disclosure

This doc defines how LLM tools (Codex, Claude Code, etc) should interact with Opaque so they can **use** secrets without ever receiving plaintext secret values.

## The Rule

LLMs get **operations**, not values.

- OK: "set GitHub Actions secret `JWT` for `org/repo` using ref `keychain:opaque/jwt`"
- Not OK: "print the JWT" / "show me the `.env` file" / "return the secret value"

## How The LLM Calls Opaque

### MCP (Preferred for Claude Code)

The recommended path for MCP-aware tools like Claude Code is the `opaque-mcp` server. It exposes Safe operations as MCP tools over stdio, so the LLM calls Opaque tools natively without shell access.

See `docs/mcp-integration.md` for setup.

### CLI Harness (Fallback)

For tools without MCP support (e.g., Codex), the agent runs `opaque ...` CLI commands directly:

- the agent runs `opaque ...` commands
- the daemon (`opaqued`) enforces policy, triggers approvals, executes the operation, sanitizes results, and emits audit events

Both paths go through the same daemon and policy engine. The MCP server is a thin adapter over the same Unix socket IPC.

## Secret Inputs: Refs, Not Values

Operations accept **secret references** (refs), not raw values.

Examples:

- `keychain:opaque/github-pat`
- `env:MY_SECRET` (daemon reads from its own environment, not the agent's)
- `profile:<name>:<key>` (profile indirection; recommended for agent workflows)
- `bitwarden:<secret-id>` or `bitwarden:<project>/<key>` (Bitwarden Secrets Manager)

Opaque should reject raw secret literals for operations that write secrets to providers.

## Profiles: Make Agent Workflows Safer

Instead of giving the agent a pile of refs each run, keep them in a profile:

```toml
[secrets]
GITHUB_TOKEN = "keychain:opaque/github-token"
```

Then the agent can request:

- "run sandbox exec with profile `dev`"

The CLI never sees the resolved secret values *directly*, but secrets can still leak if a sandboxed command prints them (see note under sandbox exec below).

## Approvals

Approvals are operation-bound and are triggered as part of execution.

v1 implemented factor:

- `local_bio`: native OS prompt (macOS LocalAuthentication, Linux polkit)

Deferred (do not build in v1):

- `ios_faceid` (v3)
- `fido2` / WebAuthn (v3)

## Handling Common Requests Safely

### "Sync my .env to GitHub"

Do not have the agent open a plaintext `.env` containing real values.

Prefer:

- `.env.example` (names only)
- a profile mapping (names -> refs)
- provider-side fetch via refs

Then call:

- `github.set_actions_secret(repo, secret_name, value_ref)` (repo or env Actions secrets)
- `github.set_codespaces_secret(secret_name, value_ref, ...)`
- `github.set_dependabot_secret(repo, secret_name, value_ref)`
- `github.set_org_secret(org, secret_name, value_ref, ...)`

### "Run tests that need secrets"

Do not paste secrets into prompts or run `printenv` to verify them.

Use:

- `opaque exec --profile <name> -- <command...>`

Opaque can inject secrets into the sandboxed process environment. **However**, `sandbox.exec` currently captures and returns stdout/stderr (and the CLI prints it), so an agent can receive any secret that is printed. Treat sandbox output as `SENSITIVE_OUTPUT` and avoid commands that echo secret material.
