docs/policy.md, before:

# Policy (v1)

Opaque uses a deny-by-default allowlist policy enforced by the daemon (`opaqued`) inside `Enclave::execute()`.

Rules are evaluated in order; the **first matching rule wins**. If no rule matches, the request is denied.

The policy lives in the daemon config file:

- `OPAQUE_CONFIG` (if set)
- otherwise `~/.opaque/config.toml`

## Client Type (Human vs Agent)

`opaqued` classifies each connecting client as:

- `human`: matches an entry in `known_human_clients`
- `agent`: everything else (default)

This classification is derived from peer credentials + executable identity and is **never** accepted from client-provided params.

## Daemon Config Schema

Top-level fields:

- `known_human_clients` (optional): list of allowlisted human executables
- `rules` (optional): policy rules (deny-all when empty)
- `audit_retention_days` (optional): SQLite retention window (default: 90)

### `known_human_clients`

Each entry matches when **all specified fields match**. Unspecified fields are treated as "any":

- `exe_path`: glob match on executable path
- `exe_sha256`: exact SHA-256 hex digest
- `codesign_team_id`: exact macOS Team ID

Empty entries are rejected by the daemon (would match everything).

Example:

```toml
[[known_human_clients]]
name = "Opaque CLI"
exe_path = "*/target/release/opaque"
```

## Rule Schema

Each `[[rules]]` has:

- `name`: label (used in audit)
- `operation_pattern`: glob (ex: `"github.*"`, `"sandbox.exec"`)
- `allow`: `true` to allow, `false` to explicitly deny
- `client_types`: `["human"]`, `["agent"]`, or both (empty means "all")

Nested tables:

- `[rules.client]`: match on client identity (`uid`, `exe_path`, `exe_sha256`, `codesign_team_id`)
- `[rules.target]`: match on operation target fields (glob patterns)
- `[rules.workspace]`: match on git workspace context (`remote_url_pattern`, `branch_pattern`, `require_clean`)
- `[rules.secret_names]`: constrain referenced secret *names* (not values) via glob patterns
- `[rules.approval]`: operation-bound approval requirements

### Approval Configuration

`[rules.approval]` fields:

- `require`: `always` | `first_use` | `never`
- `factors`: approval factors (any-of). v1 supports `local_bio`
- `lease_ttl`: seconds (optional; for `first_use`)
- `one_time`: bool (optional; defaults to `false`)

Deferred factors exist in types but are out of scope for v1:

- `ios_faceid` (v3)
- `fido2` (v3)

## Example Policy File

This is a minimal, working config that:

1. Allows `github.set_actions_secret` for a repo prefix, with first-use approval + 5 minute lease
2. Allows `sandbox.exec` with approval every time

```toml
audit_retention_days = 90

[[rules]]
name = "allow-agent-github-actions-secrets"
operation_pattern = "github.set_actions_secret"
allow = true
client_types = ["agent"]

[rules.client]

[rules.target]
fields = { repo = "myorg/*" }

[rules.approval]
require = "first_use"
factors = ["local_bio"]
lease_ttl = 300

[[rules]]
name = "allow-agent-sandbox-exec"
operation_pattern = "sandbox.exec"
allow = true
client_types = ["agent"]

[rules.client]

[rules.approval]
require = "always"
factors = ["local_bio"]
```

For more examples, see `examples/policy.toml`.

Tip: to allow all GitHub secret-setting operations, use an `operation_pattern` like `github.set_*_secret` (or `github.*`) and constrain targets (`repo`, `org`) as needed.

Commit message:

Update documentation for Bitwarden, MCP, presets, and security review
Rewrites README with architecture overview and quickstart guides.
Adds docs for Bitwarden integration, MCP server setup, and the
adversarial security review with recorded demo scripts. Updates
getting-started, operations, and demo documentation.

docs/policy.md, after:

# Policy (v1)

Opaque uses a deny-by-default allowlist policy enforced by the daemon (`opaqued`) inside `Enclave::execute()`.

Rules are evaluated in order; the **first matching rule wins**. If no rule matches, the request is denied.

The policy lives in the daemon config file:

- `OPAQUE_CONFIG` (if set)
- otherwise `~/.opaque/config.toml`

## Client Type (Human vs Agent)

`opaqued` classifies each connecting client as:

- `human`: matches an entry in `known_human_clients`
- `agent`: everything else (default)

This classification is derived from peer credentials + executable identity and is **never** accepted from client-provided params.

## Daemon Config Schema

Top-level fields:

- `known_human_clients` (optional): list of allowlisted human executables
- `rules` (optional): policy rules (deny-all when empty)
- `audit_retention_days` (optional): SQLite retention window (default: 90)

### `known_human_clients`

Each entry matches when **all specified fields match**. Unspecified fields are treated as "any":

- `exe_path`: glob match on executable path
- `exe_sha256`: exact SHA-256 hex digest
- `codesign_team_id`: exact macOS Team ID

Empty entries are rejected by the daemon (would match everything).

Example:

```toml
[[known_human_clients]]
name = "Opaque CLI"
exe_path = "*/target/release/opaque"
```

## Rule Schema

Each `[[rules]]` has:

- `name`: label (used in audit)
- `operation_pattern`: glob (ex: `"github.*"`, `"sandbox.exec"`)
- `allow`: `true` to allow, `false` to explicitly deny
- `client_types`: `["human"]`, `["agent"]`, or both (empty means "all")

Nested tables:

- `[rules.client]`: match on client identity (`uid`, `exe_path`, `exe_sha256`, `codesign_team_id`)
- `[rules.target]`: match on operation target fields (glob patterns)
- `[rules.workspace]`: match on git workspace context (`remote_url_pattern`, `branch_pattern`, `require_clean`)
- `[rules.secret_names]`: constrain referenced secret *names* (not values) via glob patterns
- `[rules.approval]`: operation-bound approval requirements

Note: `secret_names` enforcement currently depends on `secret_ref_names` being populated on the request. Some convenience wrappers (e.g., `exec`, `github`, `onepassword`) do not currently provide reliable `secret_ref_names`, so `secret_names` should be treated as best-effort until that is fixed (see the latest security review in `docs/`).

### Approval Configuration

`[rules.approval]` fields:

- `require`: `always` | `first_use` | `never`
- `factors`: approval factors (any-of). v1 supports `local_bio`
- `lease_ttl`: seconds (optional; for `first_use`)
- `one_time`: bool (optional; defaults to `false`)

Deferred factors exist in types but are out of scope for v1:

- `ios_faceid` (v3)
- `fido2` (v3)

## Example Policy File

This is a minimal, working config that:

1. Allows `github.set_actions_secret` for a repo prefix, with first-use approval + 5 minute lease
2. Allows `sandbox.exec` with approval every time

```toml
audit_retention_days = 90

[[rules]]
name = "allow-agent-github-actions-secrets"
operation_pattern = "github.set_actions_secret"
allow = true
client_types = ["agent"]

[rules.client]

[rules.target]
fields = { repo = "myorg/*" }

[rules.approval]
require = "first_use"
factors = ["local_bio"]
lease_ttl = 300

[[rules]]
name = "allow-agent-sandbox-exec"
operation_pattern = "sandbox.exec"
allow = true
client_types = ["agent"]

[rules.client]

[rules.approval]
require = "always"
factors = ["local_bio"]
```

For more examples, see `examples/policy.toml`.

Tip: to allow all GitHub secret-setting operations, use an `operation_pattern` like `github.set_*_secret` (or `github.*`) and constrain targets (`repo`, `org`) as needed.
